- [Instructor] Now let's work on the front end elements,
let's open up app.component.html,
let's type in hr for a divider and add in a new h1 header
called reserve room, now let's create a form element
let's add in the CSS class form dash horizontal
let's set the formGroup to roomSearchForm
that maps to our angular variable.
Now let's create a div, set the CSS class to form group.
Let's add in a input label, for the input ID check in,
with the class column four and the label value check in.
Now let's add another div, let's add the class column eight
then nest a input element in that div.
Let's set the ID equal to check in,
the type equal to date which will give us a date picker
set the class equal to form dash control
and the formControlName will be equal to check in
which will map to the FormControl that we defined
in app.component.ts.
Now let's copy lines 69 to 75,
and paste them right below for the check in field.
On line 78 let's change check in to check out
let's update the ID of the input field to checkout,
and also the formControlName.
Now let's do that one more time.
Let's copy lines 77 to 83, copy the form group block
right below it, let's change the label to roomNumber.
Let's update the label value to Room Number
then let's replace this input block with a select block.
Let's create a select element,
give it the id roomNumber
and the formControlName roomNumber.
Now we have to populate the options for this select.
If you go back to app.components.ts we have a collection
that contains all the available rooms.
So let's loop through that room array for each option
in this select, let's use an ngFor directive
for each room in the rooms array.
I'm going to close the project window for readability
and then set the value equal to the roomNumber
separated by a pipe then the room price.
There are a couple different ways to do this,
but this is the most straight forward
for a simple application.
Then let's set the display value of the select option
to the roomNumber, let's open up a terminal.
Navigate to the reservation app directory
and run ng serve.
Looks like we have a typo in AppComponent.ts
the room search form form group exposes changes
under valueChanges, we were missing an s.
So let's try again.
We have a mismatch in naming, we named the variable
roomValues we tried to access roomVals
so let's go ahead and fix that typo.
Now let's fix one more error.
Let's open up app.component.html
and let's make sure this value property
is surrounded by square brackets.
This will ensure we use the html option element
from lib.dom.ts so that room.roomNumber
and price get interpreted correctly.
Let's open up a terminal and make sure we restarted
and then let's open up our browser, right click, inspect
in console and let's try setting our form fields again.
Yeah so it looks like we are capturing the check in,
the check out, room number, and price correctly.
We could then pass in these variables
through a call to our back-end service.